# Jared's Playground

## About

If you've stumbled into this repository, this is the code for a website project that I am working on. The point of the project is to make cool drawings on the HTML canvas using the [p5.js library](https://p5js.org/). In doing so, I implement some pretty cool algorithms and the result is usually pretty neat.

The project is equal parts a learning tool as well as an expression of things I'm interested in. When I see a cool algorithm or think of an interesting, interactable idea I take some time out and code it up here! You can find the site live [here](https://jaredsplayground.herokuapp.com/), hosted on Heroku.

While the sketches are the main focus of the site, I've also used it as an opportunity to learn more about the basics of web development. You'll notice going through the code here that there are no frameworks, packages, or libraries used (except for p5.js); all of the code here is my own. The only other exception to p5 is I've used Express in order to handle the server-side of the project, since that was not its focus.

## How It's Done

One thing that became fairly obvious early on in development is that there would be a lot of code that gets reused, as is the usual case with web development projects. This made my limitation to not use any frameworks become pretty rough to keep up with, since while I could (and did) make my own vanilla Javascript web components to take advantage of reusable code, the way in which these are made is cumbersome to say the least.

My experience with web components in the context of a framework was in Salesforce's Lightning Web Components, so since that was what I was used to, I decided to make something to emulate the workflow given by the framework. A lot of the quality of life features like data binding was something I decided not to spend the time working on, but the ability to work on a web component in each individual file was something irreplaceable to me in the flow of creating and updating components.

The solution to this problem can be found in the [`jwork.js` file](./jwork.js). How it works is every time the server is launched, it does a scan through the source files (those in the [`src`](./src/) directory) and checks to see when they were last updated. If the last updated timestamp on the file doesn't match the timestamp for the component stored in [`module-tracking.json`](./module-tracking.json), the component gets rebuilt. This is a pretty basic build, and all it does is copy-paste the code from each file (`html`, `css` and `js`) into a single `js` file that is the component. The only real quality of life feature it has added is that it will automatically create the import statements for every component used in the `html` file.

In the end, the actual components that are used by the website are generated by this file, which makes it a lot easier for me to create new components and adjust existing ones since I get all the benefits of working with each of the languages in their own files with proper syntax highlighting, autocomplete and related features.